README.md, before:

ioredis
========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/luin/ioredis.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/luin/ioredis)
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/luin/ioredis.svg)](https://david-dm.org/luin/ioredis)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/luin/ioredis](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/luin/ioredis?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

[WIP] A delightful, performance-focused Redis client for Node and io.js

Support Redis >= 2.6.12.

Feature
------
ioredis is a robust, full-featured Redis client
used in the biggest online commerce company [Alibaba](http://www.alibaba.com/).

0. Full-featured. It supports [Cluster](http://redis.io/topics/cluster-tutorial), [Sentinel](redis.io/topics/sentinel), [Pipelining](http://redis.io/topics/pipelining) and of course [Lua scripting](http://redis.io/commands/eval) & [Pub/Sub](http://redis.io/topics/pubsub)
0. High performance.
0. Delightful API supports both Node-style callback and Promise.
0. Supports Redis commands transforming.
0. Abstraction for Transaction, Lua scripting and `SCAN`, `SSCAN`, `ZSCAN`, `HSCAN`.
0. Supports binary data.
0. Support for both TCP/IP and UNIX domain sockets.
0. Flexible system for defining custom command and registering command plugins.
0. Supports offine queue and ready checking.
0. Supports ES6 types such as `Map` and `Set`.

Instal
------

```shell
$ npm install ioredis
```

Basic Usage
------

```javascript
var Redis = require('ioredis');
var redis = new Redis();

redis.set('foo', 'bar');
redis.get('foo', function (err, result) {
  console.log(result);
});

// or using promise if the last argument isn't a function
redis.get('foo').then(function (result) {
  console.log(result);
});

// Arguments will be flatten, so both the following two line are same:
redis.sadd('set', 1, 3, 5, 7);
redis.sadd('set', [1, 3, 5, 7]);
```

Connect to Redis
----------------
When a new `Redis` instance is created,
a connection to Redis will be created at the same time.

You can specify which Redis to connect by:

```javascript
new Redis()       // Will connect to 127.0.0.1:6379
new Redis(6380)   // 127.0.0.1:6380
new Redis(6379, '192.168.1.1')        // 192.168.1.1:6379
new Redis('redis://127.0.0.1:6380')   // 127.0.0.1:6380
new Redis('/tmp/redis.sock')
new Redis({
  port: 6379          // Redis port
  host: '127.0.0.1'   // Redis host
  family: 4           // 4(IPv4) or 6(IPv6)
})
```

Handle Binary Data
------------
Arguments can be buffers:
```javascript
redis.set('foo', new Buffer('bar'));
```

And every command has a buffer method(by adding a suffix of "Buffer" to the command name)
to reply a buffer instead of a utf8 string:

```javascript
redis.getBuffer('foo', function (err, result) {
  // result is a buffer.
});
```

Commit message:

Update node.js version spec

README.md, after:

ioredis
========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/luin/ioredis.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/luin/ioredis)
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/luin/ioredis.svg)](https://david-dm.org/luin/ioredis)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/luin/ioredis](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/luin/ioredis?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

[WIP] A delightful, performance-focused Redis client for Node and io.js

Support Redis >= 2.6.12 and (Node.js >= 0.11.6 or io.js).

Feature
------
ioredis is a robust, full-featured Redis client
used in the biggest online commerce company [Alibaba](http://www.alibaba.com/).

0. Full-featured. It supports [Cluster](http://redis.io/topics/cluster-tutorial), [Sentinel](redis.io/topics/sentinel), [Pipelining](http://redis.io/topics/pipelining) and of course [Lua scripting](http://redis.io/commands/eval) & [Pub/Sub](http://redis.io/topics/pubsub)
0. High performance.
0. Delightful API supports both Node-style callback and Promise.
0. Supports Redis commands transforming.
0. Abstraction for Transaction, Lua scripting and `SCAN`, `SSCAN`, `ZSCAN`, `HSCAN`.
0. Supports binary data.
0. Support for both TCP/IP and UNIX domain sockets.
0. Flexible system for defining custom command and registering command plugins.
0. Supports offine queue and ready checking.
0. Supports ES6 types such as `Map` and `Set`.

Instal
------

```shell
$ npm install ioredis
```

Basic Usage
------

```javascript
var Redis = require('ioredis');
var redis = new Redis();

redis.set('foo', 'bar');
redis.get('foo', function (err, result) {
  console.log(result);
});

// or using promise if the last argument isn't a function
redis.get('foo').then(function (result) {
  console.log(result);
});

// Arguments will be flatten, so both the following two line are same:
redis.sadd('set', 1, 3, 5, 7);
redis.sadd('set', [1, 3, 5, 7]);
```

Connect to Redis
----------------
When a new `Redis` instance is created,
a connection to Redis will be created at the same time.

You can specify which Redis to connect by:

```javascript
new Redis()       // Will connect to 127.0.0.1:6379
new Redis(6380)   // 127.0.0.1:6380
new Redis(6379, '192.168.1.1')        // 192.168.1.1:6379
new Redis('redis://127.0.0.1:6380')   // 127.0.0.1:6380
new Redis('/tmp/redis.sock')
new Redis({
  port: 6379          // Redis port
  host: '127.0.0.1'   // Redis host
  family: 4           // 4(IPv4) or 6(IPv6)
})
```

Handle Binary Data
------------
Arguments can be buffers:
```javascript
redis.set('foo', new Buffer('bar'));
```

And every command has a buffer method(by adding a suffix of "Buffer" to the command name)
to reply a buffer instead of a utf8 string:

```javascript
redis.getBuffer('foo', function (err, result) {
  // result is a buffer.
});
```
